RHIDP-3969 Authenticating with GitHub (#604)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authentication/proc-enabling-authentication-with-github.adoc

[id="enabling-authentication-with-github"]
= Enabling authentication with GitHub

To authenticate users with GitHub, enable the GitHub authentication provider in {product}.

.Prerequisites

> * You link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/{product-version}/html/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/assembly-add-custom-app-file-openshift_admin-rhdh[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
```

* You have sufficient permissions in GitHub to create and manage a link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/overview[GitHub App].

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with GitHub, create a GitHub App.

> Prefer a GitHub App to an OAuth app to use fine-grained permissions, give more control over which repositories the application can access, and use short-lived tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Opt for a GitHub App instead of an OAuth app to use fine-grained permissions, gain more control over which repositories the application can access, and use short-lived tokens.
```

> .. link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app[Register a GitHub App] with the configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app[Register a GitHub App] with the following configuration:
```

+
* *GitHub App name*: Enter a unique name identifying your GitHub App, such as __<{product}>__-__<GUID>__.
* *Homepage URL*: Your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.
* *Authorization callback URL*: Your {product-short} authentication backend URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}/api/auth/github/handler/frame]`.
* *Webhook URL*: Your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.
* *Webhook secret*: Provide a strong secret.
* *Repository permissions*:
** Enable `Read-only` access to:
*** *Administration*
*** *Commit statuses*
*** *Contents*
*** *Dependabot alerts*
*** *Deployments*
*** *Pull Requests*
*** *Webhooks*
+

> TIP: When you intend to make changes via the GitHub API, enable `Read and write` permissions rather than `Read-only`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: If you plan to make changes using the GitHub API, ensure that `Read and write` permissions are enabled instead of `Read-only`.
```

** Toggle other permissions as per your needs.

* *Organization permissions*:

> ** Enable `Read-only` access to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Enable `Read-only` access to *Members*.
```

> *** *Members*

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * *Where can this GitHub App be installed?*: Select `Only on this account`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For *Where can this GitHub App be installed?*, select `Only on this account`.
```

> .. In the *General* tab, *Clients secrets* section, click *Generate a new client secret*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. In the *General* -> *Clients secrets* section, click *Generate a new client secret*.
```

> .. In the *General* tab, *Private keys* section, click *Generate a private key*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. In the *General* -> *Private keys* section, click *Generate a private key*.
```

.. In the *Install App* tab, choose an account to install your GitHub App on.

> .. Save for the next step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Save the following values for the next step:
```

* **App ID**
* **Client ID**
* **Client secret**
* **Private key**
* **Webhook secret**

. To add your GitHub credentials to your {product-short} secrets, edit your {product-short} secrets, such as `secrets-rhdh`, and add the following key/value pairs:
+
`AUTH_GITHUB_APP_ID`:: Enter the saved **App ID**.
`AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`:: Enter the saved **Client ID**.
+

> Optional: enter additional secrets, not required for authentication, but required for further integration with GitHub:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optional: enter additional secrets. The additional secrets are not required for authentication, but for further integration with GitHub, including:
```

+
`GITHUB_HOST_DOMAIN`:: Enter your GitHub host domain: `pass:c[https://github.com]` unless you are using GitHub Enterprise.
`GITHUB_ORGANIZATION`:: Enter your GitHub organization name, such as `__<your_github_organization_name>__'.
`GITHUB_ORG_URL`:: Enter `$GITHUB_HOST_DOMAIN/$GITHUB_ORGANIZATION`.
`GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`:: Enter the saved **Client Secret**.
`GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE`:: Enter the saved **Private key**.
`GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET`:: Enter the saved *Webhook secret*.

. To set up the GitHub authentication provider in your {product-short} custom configuration, edit your custom {product-short} ConfigMap such as `app-config-rhdh`, and add the following lines to the `app-config-rhdh.yaml` content:
+
--
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with mandatory fields to enable authentication with GitHub
[source,yaml]
----
auth:

>   environment: production

Reviewer: @themr0c Consider using number tags to the code snippets and descriptions.

Author: Intentionally, no, to avoid garbage when a user copies the YAML.

  providers:
    github:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET}
signInPage: github
----

`environment: production`::
Mark the environment as `production` to hide the Guest login in the {product-short} home page.

`clientId`, `clientSecret`::
Use the {product-short} application information that you have created in GitHub and configured in OpenShift as secrets.

`sigInPage: github`::
To enable the GitHub provider as default sign-in provider.

Optional: Consider adding the following optional fields:

`dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true`::
To enable authentication without requiring to provision users in the {product-short} software catalog.
+

> WARNING: Use this option to explore {product-short} features, but do not use it in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: Use `dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog` to explore {product-short} features, but do not use it in production.
```

+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with optional field to allow authenticating users absent from the software catalog
[source,yaml]
----
auth:
  environment: production
  providers:
    github:
      production:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET}
signInPage: github
dangerouslyAllowSignInWithoutUserInCatalog: true
----

`callbackUrl`::
The callback URL that GitHub uses when initiating an OAuth flow, such as: __<your_intermediate_service_url/handler>__.
Define it when {product-short} is not the immediate receiver, such as in cases when you use one OAuth app for many {product-short} instances.
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with optional `enterpriseInstanceUrl` field
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
auth:
  providers:

>     oidc:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    github:
```

Author: OMG the horrible leftovers! Thank you!

      production:
        callbackUrl: __<your_intermediate_service_url/handler>__
----

`enterpriseInstanceUrl`::
Your GitHub Enterprise URL.
Requires you defined the `GITHUB_HOST_DOMAIN` secret in the previous step.
+
.`app-config-rhdh.yaml` fragment with optional `enterpriseInstanceUrl` field
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
auth:
  providers:

>     oidc:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    github:
```
